README.md, before:

# Yonomi Dart SDK

[![Yonomi Dart SDK][sdk-shield]][yonomi]
[![CircleCI][circle-shield]][circle-pipeline]

---

Flutter SDK for Yonomi Platform

---

# Table of contents

1. [Installing the SDK](#install-sdk)
1. [Setting up your environment](#setup-env)
1. [Making requests to the platform](#first-request)
1. [Getting a list of all available integrations](#account-flow)
1. [Retrieving all devices](#retrieve-devices)
1. [Trait-specific actions](#trait-actions)

## Getting Started

### Installing the SDK <a name="install-sdk"></a>

Open your `pubspec.yaml` file and add the following entry under the `dependencies` section:

```
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
    
  yonomi_platform_sdk: ^1.0.0
  
```

###  Setting up your environment<a name="setup-env"></a>

You will be interacting with our platform using the following URL:

[https://platform.yonomi.cloud/graphql](https://platform.yonomi.cloud/graphql)

**Pre-requisites:** You will need to be set up with our platform, having fulfilled the following requirements:

1. Created a Tenant
2. Generated public and private RS256 key pairs
3. Updated the Tenant with your public key
4. Have users with unique Ids

If you need guidance to complete any of these steps, visit the following guide for the complete walkthrough to onboard with the platform:

[Comprehensive Platform Request Guide](https://yonomi.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/YP/pages/1740963897/Comprehensive+Platform+Requests+Guide)

#### Configure the `config.yaml` file:

Navigate to the `assets` folder in the Flutter app and create (or edit) the `config.yaml` file to make sure it has the URL to the graphQL endpoint and your tenant Id:

```
url: https://platform.yonomi.cloud/graphql
tenantId: YOUR-TENANT-ID-GOES-HERE
```

You should now be ready to make requests to our platform.

###  Making requests to the platform <a name="first-request"></a>
Let's look at how we can leverage the Dart SDK to make requests to the platform.

Let's query our user info by following the steps below:

1. Build Request object:

```
Request request = Request("YOUR-GRAPH-ENDPOINT-HERE",
    {"Authorization": "Bearer YOUR-JWT-ACCESS-TOKEN-HERE"});
```

2. Use [UserRepository]() class to get our current user's information.

```
final userFromRequest = await UserRepository.getUserDetails(request);
```

3. Now let's unwrap the `userFromRequest` object to display some useful data about our user:

```
print("My User ID: ${userFromRequest?.id}");
print("Date of my user's first activity: ${userFromRequest?.firstActivityAt}");
print("Date of my user's last activity: ${userFromRequest?.lastActivityAt}");
```

### Getting a list of all available Integrations <a name="account-flow"></a>

**Pre-requisite:** Make sure you've built a Request object (See step 1 in [Making requests to the platform](#first-request)).

To get a list of all Integrations available in the platform:

```
final integrations = await AccountRepository.getAllIntegrations(request);
```

You will get a list of Integrations

```
{id: "INTEGRATION-ID-1", displayName: "An Integration"},
{id: "INTEGRATION-ID-2", displayName: "Another Integration"},
```

Pick an integration from the list that you are interested in and copy its ID.

We will add this integration into our account by generating a URL that lets us authenticate.

```
String generatedAccountUrl = await AccountRepository.generateAccountUrl("INTEGRATION-ID-1", request);
```

This call will return a String URL.

The app can navigate to this URL to authenticate and link the user's account.

Finally, to verify that the account was linked, we can retrieve a list of accounts that were authorized via the account linking flow:

```
AccountRepository.getLinkedAccounts(integrationId, request);
```

Verify that the account is in the list.

###  Retrieving all devices <a name="retrieve-devices"></a>

**Pre-requisite:** Make sure you've built a Request object (See step 1 in [Making requests to the platform](#first-request)).

To retrieve a list of all available devices

```
DevicesRepository.getDevices(request);
```

You will get a list of devices, e.g.:

```
{
    id: "DEVICE-ID-HERE",
    displayName: "The device name",
    description: "A description of this device",
    manufacturerName: "The manufacturer of this device",
    traits: [{
    	name: "THERMOSTAT_SETTING",
    	instance: "default",
    	...
    }]
    
    ...
}
```

To get specific data for a particular device, use the `getDeviceDetails` method:

```
DevicesRepository.getDeviceDetails(request, "DEVICE-ID-HERE");
```

If you have a device with a `Thermostat` trait, you can use the `getThermostatDetails` method to retrieve state data specific only to Thermostat devices, e.g.:

```
Device thermostatDevice = await DevicesRepository.getThermostatDetails(request, "DEVICE-ID-HERE");
```

To get the current target temperature, you can do the following:

```
print(thermostatDevice.traits.first.state.value);

```

### Trait-specific actions <a name="trait-actions"></a>

#### Lock Trait

##### Action: Lock or Unlock
To lock or unlock a device with a Lock trait, use the `sendLockUnlockAction` method inside the `LockRepository` class:

**Example:** If you wish to lock the device, set the last parameter to `true`, otherwise, set it to `false`.
```
LockRepository.sendLockUnlockAction(request, "YOUR-DEVICE-ID-HERE", true);
```

#### Thermostat Trait

##### Action: Set Target Temperature

To set the Target Temperature of a device with the Thermostat trait, use the `setPointThermostat` method inside the `ThermostatRepository` class:

**Example:** Set the thermostat's target temperature to 23.0 C:

```
ThermostatRepository.setPointThermostat(request, "YOUR-DEVICE-ID-HERE", 23.0);
```

#### Action: Set Thermostat Mode

To set the Thermostat Mode of a device with the Thermostat trait, use the `setMode` method:

**Example:** Set the Thermostat's Mode to AUTO:

```
ThermostatRepository.setMode(request, "YOUR-DEVICE-ID-HERE", ThermostatMode.auto);
```
You can pick from the following modes listed in the ThermostatMode enumerator:

```
{OFF, AUTO, HEAT, COOL, FANONLY, DEHUMIDIFY, AIRFLOW}
```

[circle-shield]: https://circleci.com/gh/Yonomi/yonomi-dart-sdk/tree/main.svg?style=shield&circle-token=470fbce0775849f45768cb551352807a5652f75f
[circle-pipeline]: https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/Yonomi/yonomi-dart-sdk
[sdk-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Yonomi-SDK:_Dart-lightgrey.svg?colorA=ffd500&colorB=5c5c5c
[yonomi]: https://www.yonomi.co/

Commit message:

docs: add License, update Readme with License section

README.md, after:

# Yonomi Dart SDK

[![Yonomi Dart SDK][sdk-shield]][yonomi]
[![CircleCI][circle-shield]][circle-pipeline]

---

Flutter SDK for Yonomi Platform

---

# Table of contents

1. [Installing the SDK](#install-sdk)
1. [Setting up your environment](#setup-env)
1. [Making requests to the platform](#first-request)
1. [Getting a list of all available integrations](#account-flow)
1. [Retrieving all devices](#retrieve-devices)
1. [Trait-specific actions](#trait-actions)
1. [License](#license)

## Getting Started

### Installing the SDK <a name="install-sdk"></a>

Open your `pubspec.yaml` file and add the following entry under the `dependencies` section:

```
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
    
  yonomi_platform_sdk: ^1.0.0
  
```

###  Setting up your environment<a name="setup-env"></a>

You will be interacting with our platform using the following URL:

[https://platform.yonomi.cloud/graphql](https://platform.yonomi.cloud/graphql)

**Pre-requisites:** You will need to be set up with our platform, having fulfilled the following requirements:

1. Created a Tenant
2. Generated public and private RS256 key pairs
3. Updated the Tenant with your public key
4. Have users with unique Ids

If you need guidance to complete any of these steps, visit the following guide for the complete walkthrough to onboard with the platform:

[Comprehensive Platform Request Guide](https://yonomi.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/YP/pages/1740963897/Comprehensive+Platform+Requests+Guide)

#### Configure the `config.yaml` file:

Navigate to the `assets` folder in the Flutter app and create (or edit) the `config.yaml` file to make sure it has the URL to the graphQL endpoint and your tenant Id:

```
url: https://platform.yonomi.cloud/graphql
tenantId: YOUR-TENANT-ID-GOES-HERE
```

You should now be ready to make requests to our platform.

###  Making requests to the platform <a name="first-request"></a>
Let's look at how we can leverage the Dart SDK to make requests to the platform.

Let's query our user info by following the steps below:

1. Build Request object:

```
Request request = Request("YOUR-GRAPH-ENDPOINT-HERE",
    {"Authorization": "Bearer YOUR-JWT-ACCESS-TOKEN-HERE"});
```

2. Use [UserRepository]() class to get our current user's information.

```
final userFromRequest = await UserRepository.getUserDetails(request);
```

3. Now let's unwrap the `userFromRequest` object to display some useful data about our user:

```
print("My User ID: ${userFromRequest?.id}");
print("Date of my user's first activity: ${userFromRequest?.firstActivityAt}");
print("Date of my user's last activity: ${userFromRequest?.lastActivityAt}");
```

### Getting a list of all available Integrations <a name="account-flow"></a>

**Pre-requisite:** Make sure you've built a Request object (See step 1 in [Making requests to the platform](#first-request)).

To get a list of all Integrations available in the platform:

```
final integrations = await AccountRepository.getAllIntegrations(request);
```

You will get a list of Integrations

```
{id: "INTEGRATION-ID-1", displayName: "An Integration"},
{id: "INTEGRATION-ID-2", displayName: "Another Integration"},
```

Pick an integration from the list that you are interested in and copy its ID.

We will add this integration into our account by generating a URL that lets us authenticate.

```
String generatedAccountUrl = await AccountRepository.generateAccountUrl("INTEGRATION-ID-1", request);
```

This call will return a String URL.

The app can navigate to this URL to authenticate and link the user's account.

Finally, to verify that the account was linked, we can retrieve a list of accounts that were authorized via the account linking flow:

```
AccountRepository.getLinkedAccounts(integrationId, request);
```

Verify that the account is in the list.

###  Retrieving all devices <a name="retrieve-devices"></a>

**Pre-requisite:** Make sure you've built a Request object (See step 1 in [Making requests to the platform](#first-request)).

To retrieve a list of all available devices

```
DevicesRepository.getDevices(request);
```

You will get a list of devices, e.g.:

```
{
    id: "DEVICE-ID-HERE",
    displayName: "The device name",
    description: "A description of this device",
    manufacturerName: "The manufacturer of this device",
    traits: [{
    	name: "THERMOSTAT_SETTING",
    	instance: "default",
    	...
    }]
    
    ...
}
```

To get specific data for a particular device, use the `getDeviceDetails` method:

```
DevicesRepository.getDeviceDetails(request, "DEVICE-ID-HERE");
```

If you have a device with a `Thermostat` trait, you can use the `getThermostatDetails` method to retrieve state data specific only to Thermostat devices, e.g.:

```
Device thermostatDevice = await DevicesRepository.getThermostatDetails(request, "DEVICE-ID-HERE");
```

To get the current target temperature, you can do the following:

```
print(thermostatDevice.traits.first.state.value);

```

### Trait-specific actions <a name="trait-actions"></a>

#### Lock Trait

##### Action: Lock or Unlock
To lock or unlock a device with a Lock trait, use the `sendLockUnlockAction` method inside the `LockRepository` class:

**Example:** If you wish to lock the device, set the last parameter to `true`, otherwise, set it to `false`.
```
LockRepository.sendLockUnlockAction(request, "YOUR-DEVICE-ID-HERE", true);
```

#### Thermostat Trait

##### Action: Set Target Temperature

To set the Target Temperature of a device with the Thermostat trait, use the `setPointThermostat` method inside the `ThermostatRepository` class:

**Example:** Set the thermostat's target temperature to 23.0 C:

```
ThermostatRepository.setPointThermostat(request, "YOUR-DEVICE-ID-HERE", 23.0);
```

#### Action: Set Thermostat Mode

To set the Thermostat Mode of a device with the Thermostat trait, use the `setMode` method:

**Example:** Set the Thermostat's Mode to AUTO:

```
ThermostatRepository.setMode(request, "YOUR-DEVICE-ID-HERE", ThermostatMode.auto);
```
You can pick from the following modes listed in the ThermostatMode enumerator:

```
{OFF, AUTO, HEAT, COOL, FANONLY, DEHUMIDIFY, AIRFLOW}
```

## License <a name="license"></a>
This application is released under the [Apache license v2.0](LICENSE)

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

[circle-shield]: https://circleci.com/gh/Yonomi/yonomi-dart-sdk/tree/main.svg?style=shield&circle-token=470fbce0775849f45768cb551352807a5652f75f
[circle-pipeline]: https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/Yonomi/yonomi-dart-sdk
[sdk-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Yonomi-SDK:_Dart-lightgrey.svg?colorA=ffd500&colorB=5c5c5c
[yonomi]: https://www.yonomi.co/
